hi I'm Alex hi I'm Sammy and we expert
awful teachers here at e2 language comm
and we've been getting a lot of
questions about the changes to the TOEFL
tests so we thought why not make a video
for you guys detailing all these changes
let's get into it in today's session
we're gonna answer these questions has
the test format changed
how will this affect you has the scoring
changed an important question what
should I do next so let's start with the
first and probably the most important
question has the test format changed yes
it has changed quite a bit so let's have
a look at these changes most of you
already know that the test is divided
into four sections reading listening
speaking and writing as you can see only
the first three sections have changed no
changes have with me to the writing
section so you would still have one
independent writing task and one
integrated writing task let's say what's
changed in the reading section first
before August 2019 you had three to four
passages of around 700 words each with
twelve to fourteen questions each and it
took around sixty to eighty minutes
everything else is the same except for
the number of questions and the total
time allotted for the reading section
now there are only ten questions each
and it will take between 54 and 72
minutes that's the only change for the
reading section done now let's have a
look at the listening section so the
listening section usually consists of
lectures and conversations so the major
change that has occurred in this section
is in the number of lectures previously
there were four to six lecturers in the
listening section but now there are only
three or four lectures remember that the
number of conversations has not changed
the length of
the lectures has not changed all the
number of questions the other thing
that's changed is the time because there
are fewer lectures now you only have 41
to 57 minutes to complete the listening
section and that's it for listening so
to recap the reading section will only
have ten questions after each passage
and they'll only be three or four
lectures in the listening section so
both reading and listening are a bit
shorter than the averages pretty good
right yeah let's have a look at the
speaking now so the speaking section is
a bit tricky before guess 2019 you have
20 minutes to complete six tasks you
have two independent speaking task s--
task 1 and task 2 and then you have to
do for integrated tasks three four five
and six so what they've done is they've
gotten rid of task 1 and task 5 and what
makes it a little bit tricky is that
they have renumber the tasks now what
this means is now tasked to is actually
called task 1 and task 3 is called task
2 and so on don't let this confuse you
just remember that you need to prepare
for task 2 3 4 and 6 from the previous
test but in the new tests because they
appear consecutively
they've been numbered differently and
that's all for the speaking section as I
mentioned before no changes have been
made in the writing section so no need
to worry about that
here's a summary of all the major
changes in each section of the test so
in the reading section you now have 10
questions per passage instead of 12 or
14 in the listening section you have 3
or 4 lectures instead of 4 to 6 and in
the speaking section you'll have four
tasks instead of six and no changes have
been made to the writing section this
brings us to our second question how
will this affect you I think it's a
positive change because
a shorter now so you don't have to worry
about us staying alert for that
additional half-hour and because the
first few sections are shorter you have
more mental energy when it comes to the
writing and the speaking section which
is also a plus exactly
all in all I think this will definitely
improve your test experience we know
that the format has changed so it has
the scoring changed as well no but ETS
the company that owns tofu has announced
something called my best scores this
feature allows you to combine your best
course for each section of your TOEFL
test of any TOEFL test that you may have
taken in the past two years so for
example if you need 27 and you took the
tests and got 27 in everything but 23 in
reading if you take the test again
within two years and you get 27 in
reading you can combine those two tests
to get your desired score yes that's it
that's a great feature yeah yeah none of
the other tests usually do that so if
you can say dream choosing a test this
is something you might want to take into
consideration after all that information
overload you must be thinking what
should I do next
well the textbooks won't be updated for
another year or so because it takes time
to write new content and then to get it
published and distributed but we've
updated our content online and if you
want to practice the new format of the
test you can go to ito language comm
where you can find updated practice
activities live classes that i've taught
using the new format personalized
tutorials and much more you can find the
link in the description if you have any
other questions about TOEFL put them in
the comment section below
or get in touch with us at hello at
YouTube anguish calm and we'll see you
in class soon
[Music]